1. Theory Questions

a) Threads are a set of instructions that form a process within a program. 
Multithreading is a feature of the CPU that allows the computer to run two or more parts of a program concurrently yet independently, while sharing one resource. 
b) Concurrency is where the computer manages multiple tasks at once through the use of a single processing unit. 
The tasks do not run in order, they overlap. This increases the amount of work that can be completed. 
Parallelism is where the computer breaks down a task into smaller chunks and completes these chunks simultaneously. 
It uses multiple processing units to do this, increasing the speed of the computer system.
c) Garbage Collection in Python is an automated process where memory is released when an object is no longer in use. 
This happens when the object’s reference count is zero or through generations (an object with no outside references and does not progress from generation 0 to 2)
d)
e) An endpoint is the precise point of where an API connects with a specific program. It is one end of the communication between them. Common ways to interact with them are using an API key or a URL.
f) Data normalization refers to the organising of data inside a database. The idea behind it is to eliminate repetitve data and make the data more logical while also reducing the size of the database.
This is done through creating multiple tables and establishing how they relate to each other in the most effective way, in accordance with a number of different 'forms'. 
The most commonly used forms are first, second and third. The second and third forms include the process of creating relationships between tables using foreign keys.
Foreign keys are another table's primary key being used in said table.
Example:


2. An exception is an error that occurs during execution of a program. There are many different types of possible exceptions that exist, such as Type Errors, Value Errors and Syntax Errors. 
Exceptions can be generated automatically or generated by the programmer. 
Exception handling is where a programmer anticipates a specific error to occur and codes the program to raise a specific exception so the program does not break and is able to continue. 
Debugging is the process of analysing code for errors and removing them so the program can run as intended. 
This works by the programmer isolating the source of the problem, fixing it and then completing testing on it to ensure it works as needed.
There are tools that help with this; PyChecker checks for bugs in source code and Pylint checks for errors in code, analyses and suggests improvements so that the code is closer to the guidelines in PEP-8.

5. 
a) In Agile teams, a Scrum Master takes the role of simultaneously leading and supporting the team. 
They ensure the team morale is high by conducting individual meetings and they ensure everyone is following Scrum methodolgy as closely as possible. 
Practically they facilitate daily meetings called 'Standups' which is an opportunity for the team to individually talk about the work they are doing and any blockers they might have.
They can also lead Sprint planning meetings and retrospectively review how effective a sprint period was.
b) Another role in an Agile Team is the Development role. This role is varied and has a lot of scope. 
It consists of multiple different professionals who do the hands-on work to complete the goals of a Sprint, such as Data Analysts, UX Designers and Software Engineers.
These members of the team collaborative closely to ensure work is done effectively and problems are solved without delay. 
They get involved in goal setting, testing and other types of quality assurance tasks.

6. Test Driven Development (TDD) is a software development practice whereby a programmer writes and executes a set of tests before writing any code.
Initially, the tests will all fail and the programmer then continues to refactor the code until all the tests pass. 
Having code that passes all tests ensures confidence in the quality of code before it is deployed.
Advantages of TDD include better modularity of code due to testing small portions at a time, which creates better architecture of programs. 
It also makes code easy to maintain and refactor, easier to collaborate with others due to the tests informing of any issues, and helps programmers know their code a lot better.
Some disadvantages include the tests potentially being difficult to write and learn to do, the pace of development being slowed down to facilitate testing.
It can also be hard to apply to existing legacy code.

7. Python cursors are created using the connection.cursor() method. They serve the purpose of allowing Python code to execute commands in a connected database.
This allows Python to manipulate the data in the database as necessary.
Example:
connection = mysql.connector.connect(
   user='root', password='12345', host='100.0.0.0', database='shopdb')

cursor = connection.cursor()

8. SELECT MAX(purch_amt), customer_id from orders
WHERE customer_id between 3002 and 3007
GROUP BY customer_id
HAVING MAX(purch_amt) > 1000;



